* [GACS Beta 4.0 in Skosmos](http://browser.agrisemantics.org/gacs/en/)

The [Global Agricultural Concept Scheme
(GACS)](http://id.agrisemantics.org/gacs/) is a [SKOS concept
scheme](http://www.w3.org/TR/skos-primer/) with concepts and related terms used
in the field of agriculture, broadly defined.  As a SKOS concept scheme, GACS
identifies its concepts with Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) for use in
Linked Data.  GACS Beta 3.1, published in May 2016 with 15,000 concepts and
350,000 terms (labels) in over 25 languages, will soon be superseded by [GACS
4.0](http://tester-os-kktest.lib.helsinki.fi/gacsdemo/gacs/en/), the result of
a recent [GACS Quality Improvement Project](http://bit.ly/gacs_qip_report).

Created since 2014 on the initiative of three organizations, the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the Centre for
Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI), and the USDA National
Agricultural Library (NAL), GACS was formed at the intersection of
most-frequently-used concepts from their three respective thesauri -- the
[AGROVOC Concept Scheme](http://aims.fao.org/aos/agrovoc), [CAB
Thesaurus](http://www.cabi.org/cabthesaurus/), and the [NAL
Thesaurus](http://agclass.nal.usda.gov/), for which GACS provides a mapping
hub.

GACS is seen as an important step towards linking and integrating agricultural
data of all types to address the long-term challenge of global food security.
The GACS community of maintenance organizations is growing.  The GACS community
aspires to build collaboration with expert providers of concept URIs in
specific areas such as species, viruses, chemicals, and geographic places.

