Many thesauri, such as NALT, the General Finnish Ontology (YSO), UNESCO
Thesaurus, and the STW Thesaurus for Economics (Germany) provide a thematic
division of concepts into clusters orthogonal to the hierarchy of broader and
narrower concepts.  Thematic categories allow users to view concepts by subject
area or discipline and present specialists with concepts of interest in their 
fields.

In creating GACS, the GACS Working Group re-used a classification scheme
developed by CABI, FAO, and NAL in the 1990s for a joint project, the Unified
Agriculture Thesaurus (UAT).  A version of CABT using the classification scheme
was published in 1999 as the CAB Classified Thesaurus in a single edition.  The
1999 edition was found to cover over 80% of the concepts in GACS, and the
remaining 20% of concepts were classified manually.  

The classification scheme, which is based primarily on the CAB Classified
Thesaurus, is specific to GACS and may be pruned or expanded in accordance with
GACS requirements.

The classification scheme may be browsed under the [Groups tab of the Skosmos
website](http://tester-os-kktest.lib.helsinki.fi/gacsdemo/gacs/en/groups).  A
listing of the [full classification
scheme](https://github.com/agrisemantics/gacs-qip/blob/master/documentation/thematic_classification_full.md)
for printout. 

Headings in the classification scheme are designated with two-letter codes.
In addition, each heading is identified with a URI in the GACS namespace, 
such as [http://id.agrisemantics.org/gacs/G_HW](http://tester-os-kktest.lib.helsinki.fi/gacsdemo/gacs/en/page/G_HW)
for `HW organic compounds`.

The upper level has five categories:

        Code    Classification Heading 
        CA      GENERAL 
        FA      PHYSICAL SCIENCES 
        JA      EARTH SCIENCES 
        LA      LIFE SCIENCES 
        PA      APPLIED SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
        WA      SOCIAL SCIENCES AND HUMANITIES 

The five categories in the top-level classification serve to cluster the
categories of the lower levels and are not themselves intended to be used for
indexing.  The second level of the hierarchy has 30 categories, the third 91,
and the fourth 14, with four categories on a fifth level.  [Scope
notes](https://github.com/agrisemantics/gacs-qip/blob/master/documentation/thematic_classification_scope_notes.md)
for the classification prepared by Lori Finch include notes on how lesser-used
categories might be combined or deleted.

Each concept in GACS is assigned at least one category.  The classification is
not strict, and terms can be placed in more than one category.  

